Now, children
Are you sitting comfortably?
Then I'll begin.
"This story started many thousands
of years ago
but it was all over in just seven days.
All that long, long time ago
none of the things we can see now
. . .the sun, the moon, the stars
the earth, the animals and plants
. . . not a single one existed.
Only God existed, and so only
He could have created them.
And He did . . . "
Mr. sim pson . . . , what a character he was!
I wonder whatever beca me of him?
Oh, I imagine he's dead
like all the rest.
Ah, those were the days...
Mr. Tuttle, your hair!
Yes . . .
Good morning, ma'am.
We've come about the . . .
Oh yes, of course . . . come in.
I wasn't expecting you so soon.
You are . . . ?
I'm Bertha Mills, ma'am.
And this is Ed m und Tuttle.
Pleased to meet you, ma'a m.
You m ust be the gardener.
Ay, that's right, the gardener. . .
And this young lady's called Lydia.
Have you had m uch experience in service?
Oh, don't let that angel
face fool you, ma'a m .
She's older than she looks.
Can you iron?
What's the matter?
Has the cat got your tongue?
Ah, she can't talk, ma'am.
The poor little mite's a m ute.
Oh!
Oh, but she's a good little worker
I can promise you that.
All right. All right.
The other girl I had spoke
too m uch anyway. Follow me.
Mrs. Mills, you and the girl
you will sleep in the attic room
at the top of the stairs.
And you, Mr. . . .
Tuttle, ma'am.
. . . Ah Tuttle . . . you can sleep in the shed
around the back.
As you can see, the housework
has been rather negIected
since the servants disappeared
almost a week ago.
You mean they just vanished?
Into thin air. . . no notice . . . nothing.
They didn't even collect their wages.
They . . . they just left us.
What a strange thing to do!
You'll soon find out there
are times when this house
is not exactly an ideal home.
Hence my advertisement in the newspaper
requesting honest, hardworking people.
Oh, there's nobody more honest
and hardworking than us
isn't that right, Mr. Tuttle?
Oh, ay, we're very honest...
And uh m, . . . very hardworking.
The kitchen.
I have breakfast at eight
the chiIdren at nine.
Lunch will be served at one
and dinner at half past seven.
And the master, ma'am?
The master went off to war. . .
a year and a half ago.
I had no news since the war ended
Which of you does the cooking?
I'm so sorry, ma'am.
Have you all noticed what l am doing?
In this house no door m ust be opened
without the previous
one being closed first.
It's vital that you reme m ber this.
It's not as easy as it may seem.
There are fifteen different keys
for alI of the fifty doors,
depending on which area of the house
you're in at the time.
Mrs. Mills, from tomorrow onwards
I will be Ieaving a set of keys
in your charge.
Yes, ma'a m.
The m usic room.
That old piano was already here
when we moved in.
Please do not let the children
thu m p away on it
it sets off my migraine.
Silence is something that we prize
very highly in this house.
That's why you will not find a telephone
a radio or anything else
that makes a racket.
Ah . . . we don't have electricity either.
During the war, the Germans kept
cutting it off
so we just learned to live without it.
Let's continue . . .
M a'a m, there's really no need to show us
around the whoIe house, we . . .
Yes! Yes, there is.
Because here, most of the time
you can hardly see your way.
lt's often difficult to make out
if there is a table, a chair, a door
a sideboard or one of my children
playing Hide-And-seek.
What do you mean ma'am?
Perhaps I should introduce
you to the children.
Mr. Tuttle, you can see
to the garden now.
You'll find tools in the shed.
Yes, ma'a m.
You two can start closing the curtains.
All of them.
Come.
I'll wake them. You wait here.
Whatever you do
don't open the curtains.
Wakey-wakey
Now, come on, eyes closed
hands together.
Blessed be, at light of day,
Jesus, to whom now I pray.
Blessed be the Virgin pure
Whom I greet with faith so sure.
Jesus, M ary, spotless Rose,
Keep us till this day doth close.
They're still half-asleep.
What sweet little children!
Well? What do you say?
How do you do?
How do you do, children?
My name's Mrs. Mills, but
you can call me Bertha if you like.
What are your names?
Anne.
Nicholas.
Anne and Nicholas. What pretty names!
Are you going to be our new nanny?
Yes, my dears. I'm your new nanny.
It's time for their breakfast.
Lydia, you go to the kitchen
and close every shutter.
The doctors were never
able to find a cure.
For what?
Their condition.
The children have a very serious
alIergy to light.
They are photosensitive and they m ust
never be exposed to any Iight
m uch stronger than this.
Otherwise in a matter of minutes
they would break out in sores and
blisters and begin to suffocate.
It would eventually be fatal.
Good Heavens!
I don't like this toast.
Oh, why not?
It tastes funny.
I liked it better before.
Well, that was because, before
somebody else made it.
When are they coming back?
They're not won't be coming back, child.
Just like daddy.
Daddy is coming back, though.
Mrs. Mills, our father is fighting
in a war in France, you know.
It's the World War.
I know, but he's in France.
That's enough chatterboxes . . .
finish up your breakfasts.
Are you going to leave us, too?
Of course not. Why should l leave you?
The others said they wouldn't.
But they did . . . and then it happened.
Be quiet.
What do you mean Anne . . . ? What happened?
M u m my went. . . mad.
Nothing happened.
Yes it did.
No it didn't!
Yes, it did!
Be quiet!
What's going on?
I want to see those plates em pty
in less than a minute.
Is that clear?
Mrs. Mills, would you come outside
a moment, I'd like a word with you.
Yes, ma'a m.
The postman usually comes every
Wednesday, but I've just checked the
letter box and this week he hasn't.
I'm afraid I don't follow ma'a m .
This letter should have been collected
and delivered to the newspaper
five days ago.
It's an advertise ment for servants.
Since it was never published
wouId you mind explaining to me
what you're doing here?
Now I understand.
Well, ma'am, that's exactly
what I was going to say
to you when you opened the door to us.
The truth is that we just come
by on the off-chance.
You know a big house like this is always
in need of someone who knows the ropes.
You mean you've served in a house
Iike this one before?
This may come as a surprise
to you ma'am
but we in fact used to work here.
Here?
Oh now, it was a few years ago . . .
and if you don't mind my saying so
ma'a m they were the best years
of my life.
That's why we come by
because this house
means a lot to us.
Perhaps I'd best
show you our references ma'am.
No, no, no. Don't bother
there's no need.
Ah, so you say you know the house well?
Like the back of my hand . . . Well
that is always assu ming that the waIls
haven't sprouted legs and
moved in the meantime.
The only thing that moves here
is the light.
But it changes everything.
It's rather difficult, to say the least
one might almost say unbearable.
The only way of enduring it is
by keeping a cool head.
Oh, Yes ma'am.
I don't like . . .fantasies . . .
strange ideas.
Do you know what I mean?
I think so, ma'am .
My children sometimes have strange ideas
but you m ustn't pay any
ttention to them.
Children will be children.
Yes, of course, ma'am.
All right, you can stay.
Thank you very m uch, ma'am.
It did happened.
The Roman governor tried to make
them change their minds afterwards . . . "
"To make them change their minds."
Full stop. "Afterwards . . . "
"Afterwards
he ordered them to be beaten.
But Justus and Pastor. . . "
far from being afraid,
rejoiced and showed themselves
willing to die for Christ.
When he saw this, the Roman governor
was filled with rage and
ordered their heads to be cut off."
What do you find so am using?
Well . . .
Well, what?
Those children were really stupid.
Why?
Because they said they only believed
in Jesus and then
they got kiIled for it.
Ah, and what would you have done?
Deny Christ?
Well, yes.
Inside, I would have believed in him.
But I wouldn't have
told the Romans that.
Is that what you think, too, Nicholas?
I see.
so you both would have lied
to the point of denying Christ.
Oh you'd have saved your heads being
chopped off by the Romans . . .
that's true . . .
But what would have happened afterwards?
When?
In the next life, the one that's waiting
for us after we die.
Where would you have gone?
Oh.
Oh . . . where, Nicholas?
To the children's Lim bo.
What is the children's Lim bo, Anne?
One of the four Hells.
Which are . . . ?
M e, me, me, me, me . . . me!
No, no, no. Let him answer. Which are?
There's the hell where the da m ned go
then there's Purgatory
Yes
and the Bosom of Abraham
where the Just go
and Lim bo where children go.
At the centre of the Earth.
Where it's very, very hot.
That's where children go who tell lies.
But they don't just go there
for a few days, oh no.
No, they're dam ned, forever.
Think about it.
Try to imagine the end of eternity.
Close your eyes, close your eyes
and try to imagine it.
Forever. . . pain. Forever.
I'm getting dizzy.
Now do you understand why Justus
and Pastor told the truth?
Right, ah, open your
readers at Lesson 6.
Can't we go and play?
You most certainly cannot.
First you're going to read the lesson
and then you're going
to learn it, by heart.
All of it?!
Anne, any more protests and there'll be
no pIaying for you at aIl today.
In fact, I think you can study
in separate rooms . . .
No, no, no!
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes . . . !
But we get scared if we're separated.
You get scared . . . !
As if you weren't used
to this house by now.
What if we see a ghost?
Has your sister been telling
you one of her stories?
I haven't told him anything.
Well, if you see a ghost, you say hello
and you continue on studying.
Anne, come with me to the m usic room.
Why me?
Because l say so! Now come on
take your book.
Nicholas, I want to see that
lesson learned in less than an hour.
M u m my . . .
What?
Give me a kiss.
Oh sweet. . .
"Give me a kiss, give me a kiss . . . "
Anne, wait for me outside.
You know I can't.
Over there.
Mrs. Mills, close all the curtains.
My daughter is going to cross
the living room.
Yes ma'am.
All right darling.
Darling, m u m my can't be with you
aIl the time, h m m?
You m ust learn to be on your own.
Where's your rosary?
Ah,
whenever you feel afraid
I want you to squeeze it with
all your might and say an Our Father
and then your fear wilI go away.
It won't. . .
Yes, yes it will. Honestly.
Don't you see that when you do that
the Lord is with you?
There's no reason to be afraid.
"The house and the family.
We all live in a house with our family.
The fa mily is usually made up of parents
children, and their grandparents.
We m ust be obedient and kind . . . "
" . . . obedient and kind towards the other
mem bers of our family and
we m ust never argue or fight with
our brothers and sisters . . . "
Do you have any children?
No. Mr Tuttle and the girl
Lydia, are all I've got.
And I'm all they've got.
Was she born like that?
Beg your pardon, ma'am ?
The girl, was she born a m ute?
No . . .
You know l think
I've finished here ma'a m.
If you'll excuse me, l think I'll
go and see if Mr. Tuttle needs a hand.
Nicholas!
Nicholas, I'm coming!
Nicholas . . . ?
What's the matter?
Why were you crying?
I wasn't crying. I was reading.
But I just heard you . . .
Anne! . . . Anne!
Anne! Anne!
I haven't learned it yet, m u m my.
Are you all right?
Yes.
Why were you crying?
I wasn't crying.
But I just heard you a moment ago.
There's no need to feel ashamed darling.
I don't. lf I'd been crying
I'd tell you.
Oh, really. So, I imagined it, did I?
No. It was that boy.
What boy?
Victor.
Who's Victor?
The boy who was here a moment ago.
I told him to let me study
but he wouldn't stop crying.
I think he's a spoilt brat.
He said we had to leave the house.
Did he now? Why was he crying?
Because he doesn't like this house
but he has to live here.
His father's a pianist and . . .
Oh. ah, his father's a pianist, is he?
Yes.
And I've already told him that
he's not aIlowed to touch the piano
he isn't, is he. m u m my?
So. you've spoken to his father as well?
No, only with Victor.
His father is with the others
in the halI.
But I've just come from the hall
there's no one there.
They m ust have gone upstairs.
They're viewing the house.
That'll do, Anne.
That's enough.
Now, why were you crying?
It was Victor.
So where is he now?
He went out through there.
Would you mind telling me how a boy
can get in and out of this room
if it's locked . . . ?
I thought I made myself quite clear!
No door is to be opened without
the previous one being closed first.
Is that so hard to understand?
This house is like a ship.
The light m ust be contained as
if it were water
by opening and closing the doors.
My children's lives are at stake!
But, ma'am. I . . .
Do not argue with me! Be quiet!
Now which was the last of you
to enter that room ?
Lydia?
She hasn't got a key
I already told you that.
Well. that leaves you, then.
But, I was in the hall the whole time.
And then I went out into the garden.
You saw me with your own eyes.
I hope you are not suggesting
that was me!
Do you think that l would overlook such
a thing and endanger the Iife
of my own daughter?
You're not supposed to
read at the table.
Oh really? And who is going
to tell m u m my . . . you?
Or perhaps . . . you?
Did you really see a boy?
Yes, he's called Victor.
Is he a ghost?
Don't be stupid.
G hosts aren't like that.
What are they like?
I've told you a thousand times.
They go about in white sheets
and carry chains.
How do you know?
Because l've seen them .
They come out at night.
Fibber! Where?
You're stupid.
Not half as m uch as you.
Well. I don't believe you saw that boy.
Believe what you like.
You'll soon be begging
us to play with you.
Nicholas. Nicholas.
What?
Look.
Why have you opened the curtains?
It wasn't me.
Who was it then?
It was Victor.
He's been doing it all night.
You're a liar. I'm going to tell m u m my.
So I'm a liar, a m I?
Yes.
Victor, come out from
behind that curtain so my
stupid brother can see you.
Leave me alone.
So you don't want to see him now, eh?
You're a cowardly custard. . . . cowardly
cowardly custard . . .
cowardly, cowardly custard
Well. I'll just have to
do it myself, then.
That's enough, Victor. . .
Nicholas. Nicholas.
Tell him to leave the curtains alone.
He won't listen to me.
Stop it! Get off my bed, both of you!
This is our bed.
No, it's mine.
Anne, please stop putting on that voice.
You be quiet, cowardly custard.
Listen, if you don't stop
I'll call my mother and
she'll kick you out.
You don't know my mother!
And you don't know my parents.
Anne, I'm going to tell m u m my about you.
Don't be stupid! Can't you see
it's not me . . . ?
Victor, touch his cheek so
he knows you're real.
Help! M u m my!
Help!
M u m my! M u m my!
What is it?.
Help!
M u m my!
What is it?
She was frightening me and
I told her to be quiet and . . .
I'm fed up! Do you hear me?
I am fed up with you!
I didn't do anything!
"Therefore the Lord God sent him
forth from the garden of Eden
to till the ground from
whence he was taken.
so he drove out the man
and placed at the east of the garden
of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword
which turned every way
to keep the way of the
tree of life."
There! I've finished.
Very good.
Now you can ask the
Virgin for forgiveness.
What!? That's not what we agreed.
We didn't agree anything, young lady.
Today you're being punished
and you'lI do as I say.
You can't make me ask the
Virgin for forgiveness.
How dare you!?
M u m my, I won't ask forgiveness
for something I didn't do.
You told your brother that there
was someone else in the room!
There was!
You're lying!
I am not!
Anne, Anne. do you re mem ber the story
about Justus and Pastor?
Children who don't tell the truth
end up in Lim bo.
That's what you say.
But I read the other day that Lim bo
is only for children
who haven't been baptised.
And I have.
"And Abraham took the
wood of the burnt offering
and laid it upon Isaac his son
and he took the fire in his hand,..."
" . . . and a knife
and they went both of them together"
" . . . And lsaac speak unto Abraham
his father, and said,
My father: and he said
Here am I my son.
And he..."
Did you look in on Nicholas?
Yes ma'am, the little angel
is fast asleep.
What about Anne? Is she
still on the stairs ?
Oh yes, ma'am.
I'd prefer to have her where
I can see her
but I can't em broider
in such poor light.
How long is this punish ment
going to go on?
It's been three days now.
It's up to her.
She's got to learn to swallow her pride
and ask for forgiveness.
Anyway, it's about time she started
to read the Bible.
Well. the priest will be very pleased
to hear that ma'a m.
lf he ever deigns to pay us
another visit.
He knows perfectly well that
the chiIdren can't go out.
Oh he told me yesterday he'd be by
as soon as possible.
H m m. l'm beginning to feel totally
cut off from the world.
And this fog doesn't exactly help.
It's never lasted this long before.
Well. that's true, ma'a m .
Even the seagulls have gone quiet.
Anne!
Anne, I can't hear you!
"...and Isaac speak unto Abraha m
his father, and said, My father..."
Incidentally Mrs. Mills, l've had to
put up with the noise of Lydia
running around above my head.
Sh . . . . she's been hurtling backwards
and forwards as if there were
three of her up there.
Would you kindly tell her that it's not
necessary to kick up quite such a ru m pus
just to do a little cleaning.
I couldn't bare to get
another migraine attack.
I'll tell her. ma'am.
Thank you.
" . . . behold the fire and the wood:
but where is the lam b . . . "
Now she's really gone too far. . .
Lydia! Lydia!
" . . . and the angel of Yave..."
What's going on up there?
Nothing. m u m my.
I'm just reading. like you told me.
Did you hear it as well?
Hear what?
"And the angel of the Lord called
unto Abraham out of
heaven the second time, and said:
'By myself have I sworn
saith the Lord, . . . "'
Shhh!
What was that?
I don't know.
Anne, tell me who's making that noise?
I can't tell you, m u m my.
You tell me!
I told you there was someone in
the room and you punished me!
Now I don't know what to say!
Anne, I want the truth!
Tell me if there is someone upstairs.
There. In that junk room .
M u m my, you're letting the light in!
She's here. she's here . . .
M u m my, she says she's here.
She's watching us . . . she's watching us!
Where did they go?
They just ca me past here.
Didn't you see them?
Which way did they go?
Over there, over there . . . oh
and down there. as well.
They're everywhere.
They say the house is theirs.
And they say they're going to
take the curtains down as well.
M a'a m, stay calm please.
I will not stay calm!
For five whole years during
the occupation, I managed to avoid
a single Nazi ever stepping foot
in this house!
And now there is someone here
under my nose
opening and closing the doors!
M a'a m, this is a very old house.
Why. the floorboards squeak
and the plu m bing clanks, and . . .
There were voices. I'm telling you.
M u m my, look.
A boy and two women.
And they were talking together.
M u m my . . . m u m my look.
I did it yesterday.
This is the father, this is the mother
this is Victor
and this is the old woman.
What do these nu m bers stand for?
That's the nu m ber of times
I've seen them.
I see the old woman the most.
Oh. God in Heaven!
Mrs. Mills, go and call Mr. Tuttle.
Tell him we have to search
the whole house, im mediately
before it gets dark.
Yes, ma'a m . . . There now . . .
M u m my . . .
Yes darling.
lt's all right, nothing's going to
happen to you while m u m my's here.
Look m u m my, she really scares me.
It's as if she's not looking at you
but she can see you.
And she's always around, saying:
Coooome with meee . . .
Oh Anne. don't lie to me!
Honestly, m u m my.
And she asks me things.
Victor told me she's a witch.
What does she ask you?
Things.
Her breath smells.
We have to open all the curtains.
I don't want any dark corners
where someone could hide.
Yes, ma'a m.
You both search the right side and
I'll take the left.
Then we'll search upstairs.
"Perhaps they are ghosts who lived
in this house before and who . . . "
Don't be stupid.
I've already told you
ghosts go about in white sheets
and carry chains and go . . . "ooO O Oooo!".
Anne, why do you make up such stories?
I don't. I read them in books..
Well. you shouldn't believe everything
that you read in books.
That's what our mother says . . .
she says that aIl this stuff
about ghosts is rubbish.
And then she expects us to believe
everything written in the Bible.
And don't you believe it?
I believe some things . . .
But, for exa m ple, I don't believe that
God made the world in seven days.
And I don't believe that Noah got
aIl those animals into one boat.
Or the Holy Spirit is a dove.
No, I don't believe that either.
Doves are anything but holy.
They pooh on our windows.
Have you mentioned any of
this to your mother?
Eh m . . . ma'am . . .
Yes . . . ?
They've searched everywhere ma'am.
There's no one.
I see.
Mrs. Mills?
Yes ma'am?
Do you have any idea what this might be?
Oh. it is a photograph albu m, ma'am.
No but look, they're all asleep. Look.
They're not asleep, ma'a m . . . They're dead.
It's a book of the dead.
In the last century.
I believe they used to take photographs
of the dead in the hopes
that their souls would go on living
through the portraits.
There are even group portraits . . .
Ah! . . . And children!
Ahh . . .
It's macabre.
How could these people
be so superstitious?
Grief over the death of
a loved one can lead people
to do the strangest things.
Get rid of it.
I don't want it in the house.
Yes ma'am.
Mrs. Mills, it's cold.
Why don't you come and sit by the fire.
Thank you very m uch. ma'am.
So. tell me about when you
worked here before.
Did you have to look after
children then as well?
No. I was in charge of
organising the housework.
Were there many servants?
Oh. about fifteen.
Though in the end there were
just the three of us left.
Why?
My em ployers moved to London.
They came here less and less
it being so out of the way like . . .
And so gradually the house
just became em pty.
Everybody ends up leaving
this dam ned island.
My fa mily left in the su m mer of 1 940
just before the invasion . . .
That was the last I ever heard of the m . . .
Oh.
I don't blame them .
Actually, we left, too.
Although . . . you know sometimes
when you Ieave a pIace
it's like it's there with you
all the time.
I always felt like l never
left this house.
Why did you leave?
Oh. it was on account
of the tuberculosis.
The whole area was evacuated.
Ah . . . was that when Lydia went du m b?
Yes, l think so . . .
Though you know, my memory is a bit
rusty these days ma'am.
What happened to her?
Well suddenly, one day
she just stopped talking.
Well there m ust have been a reason . . .
People don't just stop talking.
These things are always the result
of some sort of trau ma . . . .
Something m ust have happened to her. . .
Did your em ployers treat you well?
Oh. they were always very kind to us.
They treated us just like family.
You know ma'am. I think l will go to bed
I'll never be able to get up
in the morning.
Off you go.
I'm going to stay here a while longer.
Yes ma'am.
I'm sorry I was so hard on you.
Can you forgive me . . . ?
Anne . . .
Oh . . .
M u m my.
What?
When's daddy coming home?
When the war's over.
Why did he go to war. . . l mean
nobody's done anything bad to us?
Daddy went. . .
Daddy went because
he's very brave.
And because he wasn't prepared to let
the Germans tell him what he had to do.
Why?
Charles . . . where are you?
Mrs. Mills!!
What's the matter, ma'a m?
The key to the m usic room!
Give it to me!
Quickly!
What's happening?
Come on!
Oh. my God . . . !
I checked that room myself.
It was e m pty.
Now take these tablets, ma'a m.
And yet...
They'll do you good.
And yet, and yet I felt as if
there was someone else there.
And it wasn't hu man.
There is something
in this house. something diabolic.
M a'a m!
Something which is not, not at rest. . .
I know you don't believe it.
You don't believe it, do you?
No, I don't blame you.
I . . . I used to not believe these things.
I do believe it, ma'a m.
I've always believed in those things.
Oh. they're not easy to explain . . .
but they do happen.
We've all heard stories of the beyond
now and then . . .
And I think that, sometimes
the world of the dead gets mixed up
with the world of the living.
But it's im possible!
The Lord would never
allow such an aberration!
The living and the dead, they will only
meet at the end of eternity.
It says so in the Bible.
Ma'am. there isn't always
an answer for everything.
Where are you off to ma'am?
I'm going to the village to
pay Father Legrand a visit.
lf he won't come here
then I shall go to him.
And I shall bring him back.
M a'a m, you should wait till
the weather im proves . . .
I've waited long enough.
M a'a m the priest told me . . .
I don't care what he told you!
I want him to tell me. personally.
He m ust come today.
Well. what are you going to tell him ?
We have searched every room in there
inch by inch.
And now I need them to be blessed.
Off
M a'a m, please, wait
it's still very early!
Mr. Tuttle.
Good morning. ma'am.
I need you to search the whole
garden for gravestones.
Gravestones?
Yes, when my husband bought this house
we were told there was a little cemetery
I think it was somewhere over there
amongst the trees.
I've not seen anything.
Check carefully.
They could be overgrown.
Yes, ma'a m.
I need to know if there was
a family buried here . . .
and if they had a little boy, Victor.
Now she thinks the house is haunted.
Do you think it's safe to let her go?
Oh. don't worry.
The fog won't let her get very far.
Oh. yes. the fog. The fog . . . of course.
And when . . . when do you think we should
bring alI this out into the open?
All in good time, Mr. Tuttle
All in good time.
Speaking of which . . .
Oh!
Charles . . .
Grace . . .
You're here! You're here!
They said there was no hope.
They said I should give you up for dead!
They say a lot of things.
Oh. oh, thank you, thank you God.
Thank you. Every night l've
prayed for this . . .
begging God to bring you back.
To bring the children their father back.
But where have you been all this time?
Out there, looking for my home.
You're so different, so different...
Sometimes l bleed.
M a'a m .
Mrs. Mills, this is my husband.
I'm very pleased to meet you. sir.
He's very weak.
I want you to prepare
a hot bath and some clean clothes
and something to eat.
Right away, ma'a m.
How are my little ones?
Daddy!
Why did you take so long?
Hello, Nicholas.
I told you, you see!
I told you he'd come back.
Have you both been well behaved?
We've been very good.
Have you been good to your mother?
Very good. We study everyday
for our First Com m union.
Daddy, did you kill anyone?
Oh. here he comes.
Darling, we've prepared lunch for you.
Are you coming down or would
you prefer that. . . ?
When's daddy coming down?
Be patient Anne, Daddy is not well.
He said he's seen lots of dead men.
Ssshh . . .
M u m my, when people die in the war
where do they go?
Ah. what a question! It depends.
On what?
Well . . . on whether they fought on the side
of the "goodies" or the "baddies".
Your father, for exam ple
fought for EngIand
on the side of the "goodies".
How do you know who the "goodies"
and the "baddies" are?
That's enough questions. Eat your food.
You'll never go to war.
We'll never go anywhere.
Oh. you're not missing anything.
You're m uch better at home with m u m my
and daddy, who love you very, very m uch.
And the intruders.
There are no intruders here.
But you said that there were.
No, I said that there are
no intruders here.
And I don't want to hear another
word on the subject.
But you said . . .
No, that is enough!
Can l say something?
No!
Why not?!
Because . . . because you can't!
Anne, stop breathing like that.
You heard me. Stop it!
Stop breathing!
Right, you go to your room.
Go to your room .
There's no dessert for you today.
Oh no crying now . . .
No crying . . . Oh, stop that. . . here.
Oh. look what an awful face
you've got when you cry!
I don't care!
There. there . . . You listen to me.
I've seen them, too.
You have?
Yes.
Then why don't you tell my mother.
Then maybe she'll believe me.
There are things your mother
doesn't want to hear.
She only believes in what she was taught
But don't worry.
Sooner or later, she'll see them.
And then everything will be different.
How?
Oh. you'll see . . . there are going to
be some big surprises.
There are going to be . . . changes.
Changes . . .
Now she is behaving as
if nothing had happened.
What about her daughter?
Oh. she's not so stubborn.
The children will be easier to convince.
No it's the mother
who is going to cause us problems.
Do you think her
husband suspects anything?
No, I don't think he even knows
where he is.
Oh. look what a pretty
daughter I've got.
M u m my made this veil
especially for you, h m n?
I look like a bride.
Yes you do.
Now I need to shorten
the sleeves a Iittle.
You can take it off now.
Nooo . . .
Anne, this dress has to be spotless
for your First Com m union.
I promise l won't dirty it.
Just let me wear it for a little longer.
Just a little.
Oh. just a little . . .
All right.
I'll be back shortly.
No sitting on the floor.
No leaning against the walls!
No.
M onsieur. would you like to dance . . . ?
I'd love to.
Charles, you can't go on like this.
You m ust eat something.
Oh . . . oo . . . oo . . .
"In the sky...
I don't know if it's cloudy or bright
because I only have eyes for you...
dear... the moon may be high..."
Anne, you need to take
the dress off now..
Anne, are you listening to me?
Anne . . . ?!
What did l tell you about
sitting on the floor?
But it's clean.
It makes no difference.
Why can't you ever do as you're told?
What's the matter?
Where is my daughter?
What have you done with my daughter?!
Are you mad? I am your daughter.
No! You're not my daughter!
No!
No! No! No! No! No!
M a'a m, I heard shouts . . .
She wants to kill me!
She won't stop until she kills us!
She won't stop! She won't stop
until she kills us!
H ush. H ush child. Come with me.
Come with me.
You're wicked! You're wicked! Wicked!
How is she?
There's no calming her
so I've left her with her father.
She insisted on speaking with him.
What happened? Why did you fight?
It wasn't her.
It was the old woman
with the strange eyes.
She was imitating my daughter's voice.
I'd swear to God that
it wasn't my daughter.
Oh God. God help me. God help me.
What's the matter with me.
I don't know what's the matter with me.
You m ust get more rest.
You can't take on all the responsibility
of this house.
Leave it to us. We know
what has to be done.
What do you mean by that?
What do you mean you know
what has to be done?
Nothing. ma'am. I was just suggesting . . .
There's nothing to suggest!
Who do you think you are!
You have no idea what has to be done!
Or do you?
What are these?
The tablets for your migraine. ma'am.
The ones you always take.
Please, I need to be on my own.
Yes, ma'a m.
Come on child.
Anne told me everything.
I wish I had an explanation
but I haven't.
At first, l thought there was
someone else in the house.
I even thought that there were ghosts.
I'm not talking about the ghosts.
l'm talking about
what happened that day.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Tell me is not true.
Tell me what happened.
Happened . . . ?
l don't know
what came over me that day.
I...The servants had
left during the night.
They hadn't the courage to tell me
to my face . . .
and they knew that I couldn't
leave the house.
They knew.
Anne . . . Anne, what happened?
She hit me. She went mad . . .
like she did that day.
Do you remem ber?
No.
You m ust forgive me Charles.
Not me...the children.
They know that l love them.
They know I'd never hurt them . . .
I . . . I'd die first. . .
What are you going to do?
Are you angry with me?
I just to came back to say goodbye
to my wife and children.
Now I m ust go.
Go where?
To the front.
The war's over.
The war is not over.
What are you talking about?!
You're not going, do you hear me?
You left us once already. You can't go!
Why? Why did you have to go to that
stupid war that had nothing
to do with us . . . ?
Why couldn't you have stayed here
like the others did?
The others surrendered.
We all surrendered!
The whole island was occupied!
What. . . What did you expect?
What were you trying
to prove by going to war?
Your place was here, with us
with your fa mily!
I loved you and that was enough for me
living in this darkness . . .
In this prison . . .
but not for you
I wasn't enough for you.
That's why you left
it wasn't just the war.
You want to leave me. don't you?
Forgive me. Grace
Anne!! Nicholas!!
Oh my God . . . Wait!
Oh. my God . . . !
No! Ah! No!
Where are the curtains?!
Mrs. Mills!
Oh! . . .
Let me see. Let me see.
Are you alright? You're alright.
I want my daddy.
Daddy's gone!
It's not true!
Yes it is! It is true.
I love you m u m my.
Find the curtains.
Who was it?!
Who did this?
Tell me! Tell me!
You know what's happening here . . .
You know because
it happened to you. too!
Now tell me!
Write it down. Write it down.
Please. Please.
That attitude won't
solve anything. ma'am.
And anyway she can't write.
Where are they?
What?
The curtains!
The curtains my children's
lives depend on!
Someone has taken the curtains!
I have noticed ma'am, there's
no need for you to raise your voice . . .
Oh. Mr. Tuttle, l was just on
the point of calling you.
Did you know someone's
taken all the curtains?
The curtains?
Oh. dear. . .
Why should anyone want to
take all the curtains?
Oh, to let some daylight
into this house. I imagine.
Daylight. . . of course.
Someone wants to kill my children!
Now, why do you think the daylight
would kill the m ?
Are you mad? I told you.
I already told you, the children
are photosensitive!
The light will kill them.
Yes, but that was before.
The condition could have
cleared up by itself.
I mean. if you never expose them
to the daylight
how do you know they're not cured?
My sister-in-law used to get
terrible attacks of rheu matism
in her legs and back . . .
Then one fine day . . . they disappeared.
I'm going to find those curtains
and when you have finished
helping me hang them
you will leave this house.
What about the master ma'am?
What does he have to say about all this?
Give me your keys.
I want the keys now.
I know what you want.
You want to frighten us.
You want to get us out
me and my chiIdren.
You've wanted to take over this house
ever since the first day you arrived . . .
Now, you give me those keys.
I will not ask again.
You should try and calm down, ma'am.
Give me the keys! Give them to me!
And now, get out of here.
You know something, Mr. Tuttle . . . ?
I think I've reached
the end of my tether. . .
What about you?
Oh. yes. . . . definitely.
We'd better go and
uncover the gravestones.
What's m u m my doing?
I've already told you. she's gone mad.
Liar.
She's gone mad.
Liar. liar. . .
She's gone mad. she's gone mad!...
Liar! Liar! Liar!!
Night time.
Where are you going?
I've had enough.
I'm going to the woods
to look for daddy.
Are you going to run away?
lf I hang on to the pipe
I can clim b down to the ground.
It's very easy.
lf m u m my finds out, you're in for it.
Yes, yes, yes . . .
Anne, wait!!
I want to come and look for daddy, too.
Liar. you just don't want to be left
on your own . . .
scaredypants, scaredypants . . .
Be quiet!!
Anne, I think we've gotten lost.
We still haven't left
the garden yet, silly.
I'm scared.
You shouldn't have come, then.
Say something.
What shall l say?
I don't know. Anything.
Let's see . . . my na me's Anne
and I'm walking.
I'm walking and my na me is Anne . . .
What's that over there?
I think they're graves.
Don't go near.
Why not?
What if a ghost ju m ps out?
Graves don't have ghosts.
Only skeletons.
There's something written here.
Let's go.
Wait.
Anne, what does it say?
You m ust be strong now, children.
Nicholas. come here!
Mrs. Mills, please don't tell
m u m my we've run away.
Don't speak to them!
Why?
They're dead.
What?
They're ghosts. please come here!
Children. we . . . !
Nicholas!
lf they're ghosts. why aren't they
wearing sheets and clanking chains?
You said that. . .
I don't care what I said!
Get away from them!
You're always teasing me
and telIing Iies. and I'm sick of it.
I'm not teasing you!
I'm telling the truth! Come here!!
Quick.
No!
Children!
Run! Run! Go! Run!
Into the house . . .
Don't come any closer! Don't move!
Don't trouble yourself. ma'am.
Tuberculosis finished us off. . .
more than half a century ago.
Go away!
Open the door ma'am, please.
What do you want?
M u m my, don't open the door. don't. . .
We've seen their graves.
Go upstairs and hide . . . Go on!
I'm scared . . .
Don't separate.
Anne, oh.
Whatever you do don't separate.
Go hide. Go! Go!
We 've been trying to
make you understand . . .
U nderstand what?
About the house . . .
about the new situation.
What situation?
We m ust all learn to live together. . .
the living and the dead.
lf you're dead, leave us in peace!
Leave us in peace!
Come here. Get inside.
And suppose we do leave you
do you think they will?
Who?
The intruders.
There are no intruders
there are no intruders . . .
They took the curtains down
oh. yes. I assure you it was them.
And now they're in there
with you and the children.
Waiting for you!
Nooo!!!
Yeees!! And believe me
sooner or later they'll find you . . . .
Listen. wait here and
I'lI be back in a minute . . .
No, no, no . . . !
M u m my said we shouldn't separate.
I can't leave her on her own!
Stop breathing like that.
Nicholas. stop breathing like that.
Stop breathing!
Can't you hear it?
There's someone there.
Come with us . . .
children.
Nicholas . . . ?
Anne . . . ?
Where are you . . . ?
Answer me!
The intruders have found them.
There's nothing we can do now.
You'll have to go upstairs
and talk to them.
Our Father, who art in heaven
hallowed be Thy name
Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done on earth as
it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread and
forgive us our trespasses . . .
Why are you afraid children?
Why don't you want us
to be your friends?
Come on, speak to us. speak to us.
Tell me what happened?
Don't tell her! Don't tell her!
"Don't tell her."
lf I tell her
they'll Ieave us in peace.
M u m my!
"M u m my."
Why are you crying, children?
What happened in this room?
What did your mother do to you?
Something about a pillow . . .
Is that how she killed you?
With a pillow?
She didn't kill us.
Children. if you're dead
why do you remain in this house?
We're not dead!
Why do you remain in this house?
We're not dead! We're not dead!
We're not dead!
Why do you remain in this house?
"We're not dead, we're not dead . . . "
We're not dead! We're not dead!
We're not dead!
We're not. . .
. . . Dead!
Are you all right?
Yes, just a bit dizzy. That's all.
What happened?
They made contact.
All three?
Apparently, yes.
The mother and the two children.
Quite interesting, don't you think?
Interesting?
I was scared out of my wits!
Darling, calm down.
No. So far we have handled this
matter your way.
But now you listen to me.
We can't possibly stay in this
house any longer.
It is quite clear that these beings
do not want us to live here.
We don't know anything about them yet.
Yes, we do. We know the woman, went mad
smothered her two children and
then shot herself.
That's quite enough.
Think of our son.
There's nothing wrong with Victor.
Yes there is!
He has nightmares
he says he has seen that girl.
And even this lady has been
possessed by her.
Please, let us leave this house.
All right.
We will leave tomorrow morning.
Thank God for that.
I'll just go and check on Victor.
Once again, thank you so
m uch for coming.
A pleasure.
I hope we've been of some help.
Oh yes, of course
but I ad mit that was not the most
pleasant evening of my life.
I understand. However
I found it electrifying.
At first I couldn't understand what
the piIlow was doing in my hands.
And why. you didn't move.
But then I knew . . .
It had happened . . .
I'd killed my children . . .
I got the rifle
I put it to my forehead
and I pulled the trigger . . .
Nothing . . .
And then I heard your
laughter in the bedroom.
Ah. you were playing with the pillows
as if nothing had happened.
And I thought, ah . . . the Lord
in his great mercy.
was giving me another chance
telling me, "don't give up, be strong.
be a good mother for them ."
But now, ah . . .
what does all this mean?
Where are we?
Young Lydia asked the very same thing
when she realised the three of
us were dead.
And that was the last time
she ever spoke
but I couldn't tell you that before now.
Shall I make us a nice
cup of tea, ma'am?
The intruders are leaving
but others will come.
Now, sometimes we'll sense them and
other times we won't.
But that's the way it's always
been . . . ma'am.
M u m my . . . daddy died in the war
didn't he?
Yes.
Will we ever see him again?
I don't know . . .
lf we're dead, where's Lim bo?
I don't know if there even is a Lim bo . . .
I'm no wiser than you are.
But I do know that I love you,
I've always loved you.
And this house is ours.
You say with me: this house is ours . . .
This house is ours . . .
This house . . .
This house is ours. this house is ours
M u m my . . . look.
It doesn't hurt any more.
No one can make us leave this house . . .
Come along, Victor.